:title: Homework #01
:subtitle: Wednesday, September 21, 2016
:status: hidden

**DUE: Monday, September 26, 2016 before class in Box A in the MAE department if a paper assignment and
if digital turn in it in via Canvas.**

`PDF Version <{attach}/materials/hw-01.pdf>`_

Problem 1
=========

A function object is a value you can assign to a variable or pass as an
argument. For example, ``do_twice`` is a function that takes a function object
as an argument and calls it twice:

.. code:: python

   def do_twice(f):
       f()
       f()

Here's an example that uses ``do_twice`` to call a function named
``print_spam`` twice.

.. code:: python

   def print_spam():
       print 'spam'

   do_twice(print_spam)

1. Type this example into a Jupyter notebook and test it.
2. Modify ``do_twice`` so that it takes two arguments, a function object and a
   value, and calls the function twice, passing the value as an argument to the
   function.
3. Write a more general version of ``print_spam``, called ``print_twice``, that
   takes a string as a parameter and prints it twice.
4. Use the modified version of ``do_twice`` to call ``print_twice`` twice,
   passing ``'spam'`` as an argument.
5. Define a new function called ``do_four`` that takes a function object and a
   value and calls the function four times, passing the value as a parameter.
   There should be only two statements in the body of this function, not four.

Problem 2
=========

In a Jupyter notebook use NumPy to solve the following:

1. Create a uniform subdivision of the interval -1.3 to 2.5 with 64
   subdivisions.
2. Generate an array of length :math:`3n` filled with the cyclic pattern 1, 2,
   3.
3. Create an array of the first 10 odd integers.
4. Create a 10 x 10 arrays of zeros and then "frame" it with a border of ones.
5. Create an 8 x 8 array with a checkerboard pattern of zeros and ones using a
   slicing + striding approach.
6. Try using the dot function on a vector-vector, matrix-vector and
   matrix-matrix example. (This may seem simple but it's good to see how the
   results differ in each case.)
7. Create a function which creates an n×n array with (i,j)-entry equal to i+j.
8. Evaluate cos and sin on the interval [0, 1] and then stack the results into
   a tall array with rows being the (cos(x), sin(x)) entries.
9. Create a random 3x5 array using the ``np.random.rand(3, 5)`` function and
   compute: the sum of all the entries, the sum of the rows and the sum of the
   columns. (*Just like sorted had an optional key= argument, many Numpy
   functions have an optional axis= argument!*)
10. Create a random 5x5 array using the function ``np.random.rand(5, 5)``. We want
    to sort the rows according to the second column. Try combining array
    slicing + argsort + indexing to do this.

Refer to the `NumPy documentation`_ and `SciPy Lecture Notes`_ for help.

.. _NumPy documentation: http://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy-1.10.0/
.. _SciPy Lecture Notes: http://www.scipy-lectures.org/

Problem 3
=========

In a Jupyter notebook use NumPy and Matplotlib to create a plot of the `Batman
equation`_. The outline should be should be yellow and the enclosed space
should be filled with black. Remove the grid and axes (i.e. plain white
background) and insert your first name into the inside the symbol as large as
it can be without touching the edges of the symbol. Color your name yellow too.

.. _Batman Equation: http://mathworld.wolfram.com/BatmanCurve.html

Refer to the Matplotlib documentation and gallery for help.
